# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
This file explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.

### Reading the Data

---

In the **READ** section we collect the data from the **UCI HAR Dataset Folder** and assign data frames for each of the required data set.

We use the **read.table()** function to read the text files required for the analysis.

```
{
  read.table("data",header = F, stringsAsFactors = T)
}
```

*data* refers to the text file corresponding the required data.
This data is then manipulated in the **RESHAPE** section.


### Reshaping the Data

---

In the **RESHAPE** section, we modify the data frames we have just *read* from the **READ** section.

To be able to subset data where the variable contains *mean()* and *std()* we use the **grepl()** function.

```
{
  gsub(pattern = "\\(\\)",replacement = "")
}
```
  
To *clean up* the names of the variables we use the **gsub()** function.

```
{
  [grepl("mean",feats$V2) | grepl("std",feats$V2),] 
}
```
here i used the ending characters *\\* since *()* are reserved characters.  

To reassign the activity name to the activity *ID* we need to use **plyr:join**
```
{
  join(ytest,activitylabs,by='V1');ytest2 <- ytest2[-1]
}
```
here i removed the first column that was generated by the join process by using *[-1]*

### Merging the Data

---

In the **MERGE** section of the code, we combine the *reshaped* data and the rest of the *read* data to build our combined data set.

We used the  **cbind()** function to combine the test group and train group data, which are the subject data, activity data, and the measurement data. 
```
{
  cbind(subjtest,ytest2,xtest2)
}
```
after combining the test and train group sets are combined, we combine both test and train group into one data by using the **rbind**() function.

```
{
  rbind(test,train)
}
```

### Subsetting the Data

---

After having merged all of the data, we now need to *subset* the data according to their activity and subject *groups*.

We can do that (*behind the scenes*) by using the **group_by** function.
```
{
  group_by(activity,subject)
}
```
after we have grouped them according to activty and subject, we can now summarise each group's mean using the **summarize_all()** function.
```
{
  summarise_all(mean)
}
```
### Exporting the data

---

Now that we have a clean, summarized data we can export this information into a text file using **write.table**.
```
{
  write.table(tiddydata,"tidydata.txt",row.names = F)
}
```
